Kalends    December XXXI
Luna                             XXX
xiij   f
  ii    g
        a
x      b Saint Barbara the Virgin
        c
xviij d Nicholas the Bishop
  vii  e
        f Conception of Mary
xv    g
  iiij  A
        b
xii    c
  i     d Lucy the Virgin
        e Nicasius
ix     f 
        g 
xvij  a Lazarus the martyr
   vi  b
        c
xiiij  d
  iij   e Thomas
        f
xi     g
        a Vigil
xix   b Christ’s birth
        c Stephen the martyr
viij   d John the Evangelist
        e Innocent Saints 
xv    f
  v    g
xiij   a Saint Sylvester 
 /next/
 /next/
 /next/
Beginning of the hours of the Holy Cross.
Divine Lord, open my lips.
And my mouth shall announce your praise.
God, come to my assistance.
O Lord, haste to help me.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost. 
Even as it was in the beginning, and now, and ever: and world without end, Amen.
The wisdom of the Father, and divine truth, 
God made man was captured at the morning hour, 
Quickly abandoned by His disciples: 
Betrayed by the Jews, sold, and tormented.

V.: We adore you O Christ, and we bl[ess you].
/next/
[We bl]ess you, for by your holy cross you have redeemed the world.
O Lord Jesus Christ, the son of the living God, set your passion, cross, and death between your judgement and my soul, now, and in death and vouchsafe to grant unto me mercy and grace, to the living and the dead rest and pardon, to your church peace and concord, and to us sinners life and glory everlasting. You who live and reign forever and ever. Amen.
At Prime. O God, [come] to assistance.
At the hour of prime, Jesus is led to Pilate. Much accused by false witnesses. On the neck, 
/next/
they strike him with his hands tied, they spit upon God’s face, the dear light of heaven. 
Verse: We adore you. Prayer: Lord Jesus Christ. 
At Terce. O God, [come] to assistance. “Crucify him,” they scream at the third hour. The one they mock is clothed with a red robe, his head is pricked with a crown of thorns, he carries the cross on his shoulders to the place of pain. Verse: We adore you. Prayer: Lord Jesus Christ. 
At Sexte. O God, [come] to assistance. At the sixth hour of the day, Jesus was nailed to the cross and, sentenced, he is left hanging with thieves. Thirsty for the tortures, filled with bitter poison, the lamb washed away crime made divine in such way. Verse: We adore you. Prayer: O Jesus Christ. At Nones. 